Hey guys, welcome back.
So the next trend that we're going to discuss is what's called pair programming.
Now, typically, when you think of someone making an application and programming,
you think of someone sitting there in their pajamas, staring at a black screen
with white text for very long periods of time, and just kind of talking to themselves silently.
And that is kind of the standard way of doing it, but that is changing.
What's making it change is a concept called pair programming.
Now, the basics of how this works is opposed to one person sitting down,
working on an application and doing their programming,
you actually have two people sat at the same exact place.
I've seen it in some cases when you sit behind them,
and you alternate, or something like that.
The idea is two people will write one piece of code.
Now, I know that's a little weird, right?
Aren't you just going to step on each other's toes?
Why do you need to share a computer?
Are you running out of computers?
No, actually it's something that is designed to increase quality.
Do you remember how we talked about bugs and debugging,
and how architecture makes such a huge difference in applications?
Well, the idea here is that if you have two sets of eyes on something,
then the chance of you coming out with something that doesn't work
or creates problems down the road is just much less likely.
Now, doesn't that mean slower development?
Well, yeah, in general it does.
You won't get as many features done as quickly.
But it does have two prominent upsides.
One, the code quality improves, that means less time fixing it, it means
it's easier for people to learn it, and just in
general, it's going to have better performance.
The second benefit is that by pairing developers together, they learn from each other.
So, often times, what you'll see is a senior developer with a junior,
and the junior, just by doing this process, they
learn an enormous amount from the senior.
It's also just the case that everybody thinks differently,
and so being exposed to that can make you learn quite efficiently.
There's actually a pretty well-known quote, it's by Mark Zuckerberg,
he said something along the lines of
he would take one great programmer over 100 good programmers any day.
Now, the basic sentiment behind that statement is similar
to the reason why people use pair programming.
Code is designed to essentially replace what humans would traditionally have done.
So if you have better design, and you have a great engineer
who has a great way of thinking through big problems,
that's actually better than having a large team that can produce things quickly,
but it's not going to be of the highest quality.
Now, remember, when you're building something, you don't know if tomorrow
you're going to have to pivot and change entirely what your app or your business does,
and you also don't know if you might blow up in size.
What's going to happen when this thing you made for 100 users
now needs 10 million users to be accommodated?
In general, it's better to do it right in a slow fashion than do it ok quickly.
Now, the best way of thinking about pair programming is if you are someone
who is going to go into programming, you should have some familiarity with it.
It's a fantastic way to learn how to communicate, especially with another developer,
which is something that you're going to have to do
on a job regardless, so it's a great litmus test.
If you're someone that's going into programming
as a business, development businesses,
pair programming is not going to be used
as often, because you're more budget conscious.
The only time we've ever used pair programming at Sprintkick was
with big applications that had a long timeline.
All right, so the next time you walk through a building, and you see two people
programming on the same screen, sitting next to each other, like they're dating,
that's pair programming, and it's something that you should be familiar with.
All right guys, see you in the next lecture!